Ansible_installations

Overview on Ansible
? In one liner "Ansible is a super-simple automation platform that is agentless and extensible."
? It is an open source tool (with enterprise editions available) developed using Python and runs on Windows, Mac, and UNIX-like systems.
? Ansible is an orchestration engine in IT, which can be used for several use cases.
? Compared to other automation tools, Ansible brings you an easy way to configure your orchestration engine without the overhead of a client or central server setup.
? Another great feature is that Ansible is agentless.
? It uses SSH, so we don't have to prepare and install something before we start.
? It comes preloaded with a wide range of modules that make your life simpler.


Master Node Configurations: - 

Step1 : - Creating ansible user

Create a user ansible and also add password to that user.

Step2 : - edit sshd_config file

Path : nano /etc/ssh/sshd_config

Uncomment the below line 

PasswordAuthentication yes

Comment the below line
#PermitEmptyPasswords no

Step3 : - Edit the sudoers file

Path : nano /etc/sudoers

As we have created an earlier user as ansbileuser now we will add that user to sudoers file and give all privileges with password less.

ansibleuser     ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD: ALL



Step4 : - generating Pub key to do ssh authentication

a) Login to ansibleuser with "su ansibleuser"

b) Check with any key is generated earlier with ls -la

c) If no ssh key is generated earlier, then generate new key with
"ssh-keygen" .
d) Now check if the .ssh file is created or not with ls -la command .
e) Now change the path to the .ssh file and copy the pub-key to the remote server using cmd ssh-copy-id username@hostip and with all the requirements like it will ask remote server password etc authenticate every thing and later the remote server will let you into it , then you can access remote server.

Nodes/Remote server configurations : - 

Repeat the steps -1,2,3 as done in master node configuration and make sure to install python on the remote server.


https://www.golinuxcloud.com/ansible-tutorial/







